docs/nachet-inference-documentation.md, before:

# Inference Request with n pipelines

## Executive summary
Following the objective of milestones 1, Nachet back end need to deploy a
functionality to switch in between different model. However, a model can call
another model for more accurate result. Therefore creating a pipeline of models.
In order to not be mix in between terms, a glossary to explain what is a
pipeline and what is model was needed.

Since pipeline can have n models, the use of the blob storage as a temporarily
solution to store all pipeline available was suggested.


## Glossary

### Pipelines
Pipelines are defined as a set of models that follow each other, where the output of
one model is used as input for the next models, and so on. A pipeline contains from 1 to n
models.

#### Pipelines flowchart 1.0.0
```mermaid
flowchart LR

A{Pipeline entry point}-->|user input|SB1-->F{Pipeline exit point}-->|"last model
output"|G>"return
result.json to user"]

subgraph SB1[In pipeline]
    direction TB

    B(model 01)-->|"model output
    send to the next one"|C(model 02)-->|can have n models|D(n models)

end
```

### Models
A model is an AI model who is a part of a pipeline. A model accepts images as input
and returns JSON as output. Generally, this JSON contains the coordinates of objects in the
source image, that the model may pass along to feed the next step of the pipeline.


### Model from Frontend
On the frontend interface, a pipeline will be called a model, because the user will
not be aware of the difference. From the user'S perspective, they sent data to a
model and receive the result.

*Suggestion: we could call the pipeline a method, if we don't want to mix term.*

# Sequence Diagram for inference request 1.0.0

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram

    actor Client
    participant Frontend
    participant Backend
    participant Blob storage
    participant Model

    Note over Backend,Blob storage: initialisation
    Backend-)Backend: before_serving()
    Backend-)Backend: get_pipelines_models()
    alt
    Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
    Blob storage--)Backend: return pipelines_models.json
    else
    Backend-)Frontend: error 400 No pipeline found
    end
    Note over Backend,Blob storage: end of initialisation
   
    Client->>Frontend: applicationStart()
    Frontend-)Backend: HTTP POST req.
    Backend-)Backend: get_pipelines_names()
    Backend--)Frontend: Pipelines names res.
    Note left of Backend: return pipelines names and metadata

    Frontend->>Client: application is ready
    Client-->>Frontend: client ask action from specific pipeline
    Frontend-)Backend: HTTP POST req.
    Backend-)Backend: inference_request(pipeline_name, folder_name, container_name, imageDims, image)
    alt missing argument
        Backend--)Frontend: Error 400 missing arguments
    else no missing argument
        Backend-)Backend: mount_container(connection_string(Environnement Variable, container_name))
        Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
        Blob storage--)Backend: container_client
        
        Backend-)Backend: upload_image(container_client, folder_name, image_bytes, hash_value)
        Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
        Blob storage--)Backend: blob_name

        Backend-)Backend: get_blob(container_client, blob_name)
        Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
        Blob storage--)Backend: blob

        loop for every model in pipeline
            note over Backend, Blob storage: Header construction
            Note over Backend,Blob storage: {"Content-Type": "application/json", <br>"Authorization": ("Bearer " + endpoint_api_key),}
            Backend-)Backend: urllib.request.Request(endpoint_url, body, header)
            Backend-)Model: HTTP POST req.
            Model--)Backend: Result res.
            alt next model is not None
                note over Backend, Blob storage: restart the loop process
                Backend-)Backend: record_result(model, result)
                Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
                note over Backend, Blob storage: record the result produced by the model

            end
        end
        
        par Backend to Frontend
            Backend-)Backend: inference.process_inference_results(data, imageDims)
            Backend--)Frontend: Processed result res.
        and Backend to Blob storage
            Backend-)Backend: upload_inference_result(container_client, folder_name, result_json_string, hash_value)
            Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
        end
    end
    Frontend--)Client: display result
```

![footer_for_diagram](https://github.com/ai-cfia/nachet-backend/assets/96267006/cf378d6f-5b20-4e1d-8665-2ba65ed54f8e)

Commit message:

fixes 31: Modify executive summary following review

docs/nachet-inference-documentation.md, after:

# Inference Request with n pipelines

## Executive summary

Nachet interactive is building toward enhancing users effectiveness and
experience detecting regulated seeds. In order to reach these goals, Nachet
interactive is implementing different AI models to achieve specific tasks.
Models can work together to improve result's accuracy. This document purpose is
to provide design of the technical implementation of a multi-model
functionality.

## Glossary

### Pipelines
Pipelines are defined as a set of models that follow each other, where the output of
one model is used as input for the next models, and so on. A pipeline contains from 1 to n
models.

#### Pipelines flowchart 1.0.0
```mermaid
flowchart LR

A{Pipeline entry point}-->|user input|SB1-->F{Pipeline exit point}-->|"last model
output"|G>"return
result.json to user"]

subgraph SB1[In pipeline]
    direction TB

    B(model 01)-->|"model output
    send to the next one"|C(model 02)-->|can have n models|D(n models)

end
```

### Models
A model is an AI model who is a part of a pipeline. A model accepts images as input
and returns JSON as output. Generally, this JSON contains the coordinates of objects in the
source image, that the model may pass along to feed the next step of the pipeline.


### Model from Frontend
On the frontend interface, a pipeline will be called a model, because the user will
not be aware of the difference. From the user'S perspective, they sent data to a
model and receive the result.

*Suggestion: we could call the pipeline a method, if we don't want to mix term.*

# Sequence Diagram for inference request 1.0.0

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram

    actor Client
    participant Frontend
    participant Backend
    participant Blob storage
    participant Model

    Note over Backend,Blob storage: initialisation
    Backend-)Backend: before_serving()
    Backend-)Backend: get_pipelines_models()
    alt
    Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
    Blob storage--)Backend: return pipelines_models.json
    else
    Backend-)Frontend: error 400 No pipeline found
    end
    Note over Backend,Blob storage: end of initialisation
   
    Client->>Frontend: applicationStart()
    Frontend-)Backend: HTTP POST req.
    Backend-)Backend: get_pipelines_names()
    Backend--)Frontend: Pipelines names res.
    Note left of Backend: return pipelines names and metadata

    Frontend->>Client: application is ready
    Client-->>Frontend: client ask action from specific pipeline
    Frontend-)Backend: HTTP POST req.
    Backend-)Backend: inference_request(pipeline_name, folder_name, container_name, imageDims, image)
    alt missing argument
        Backend--)Frontend: Error 400 missing arguments
    else no missing argument
        Backend-)Backend: mount_container(connection_string(Environnement Variable, container_name))
        Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
        Blob storage--)Backend: container_client
        
        Backend-)Backend: upload_image(container_client, folder_name, image_bytes, hash_value)
        Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
        Blob storage--)Backend: blob_name

        Backend-)Backend: get_blob(container_client, blob_name)
        Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
        Blob storage--)Backend: blob

        loop for every model in pipeline
            note over Backend, Blob storage: Header construction
            Note over Backend,Blob storage: {"Content-Type": "application/json", <br>"Authorization": ("Bearer " + endpoint_api_key),}
            Backend-)Backend: urllib.request.Request(endpoint_url, body, header)
            Backend-)Model: HTTP POST req.
            Model--)Backend: Result res.
            alt next model is not None
                note over Backend, Blob storage: restart the loop process
                Backend-)Backend: record_result(model, result)
                Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
                note over Backend, Blob storage: record the result produced by the model

            end
        end
        
        par Backend to Frontend
            Backend-)Backend: inference.process_inference_results(data, imageDims)
            Backend--)Frontend: Processed result res.
        and Backend to Blob storage
            Backend-)Backend: upload_inference_result(container_client, folder_name, result_json_string, hash_value)
            Backend-)Blob storage: HTTP POST req.
        end
    end
    Frontend--)Client: display result
```

![footer_for_diagram](https://github.com/ai-cfia/nachet-backend/assets/96267006/cf378d6f-5b20-4e1d-8665-2ba65ed54f8e)
